---
id: "routing"
title: "HTTP Routing and Serialization"
sidebar_label: "How Twirp routes requests"
---

Routing and Serialization is handled by Twirp. All you really need to know is
that "it just works". However you may find this interesting and useful for
debugging.

### HTTP Routes

Twirp works over HTTP 1.1; all RPC methods map to routes that follow the format:

```
POST /twirp/<package>.<Service>/<Method>
```

The `<package>` name is whatever value is used for `package` in the `.proto`
file where the service was defined. The `<Service>` and `<Method>` names are
CamelCased just as they would be in Go.

For example, to call the `MakeHat` RPC method on the example
[Haberdasher service](https://github.com/twitchtv/twirp/wiki/Usage-Example:-Haberdasher)
the route would be:

```
POST /twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/MakeHat
```

Note that the [official Go implementation](https://github.com/twitchtv/twirp) differs in behavior from what is described in the [specification](https://twitchtv.github.io/twirp/docs/spec_v5.html). It modifies the service and method names to be CamelCase (with an initial capital) instead of using the exact names specified in the protobuf definition. This means that the URL paths generated for Go clients and servers may differ from paths generated for other language implementations. This issue is discussed in [#244](https://github.com/twitchtv/twirp/issues/244).

For instance, if the `MakeHat` method name was spelled as `make_hat`, the Go implementation would generate this route:
```
/twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/MakeHat
```
instead of what the spec says the route should be:
```
/twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/make_hat
```

If having consistent URL paths across language implementations is required, it is recommended to follow the [Protocol Buffers Style Guide](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/style#services) for method and service names by CamelCasing them. This ensures that the URL paths generated by Twirp are consistent across language implementations.

### Content-Type Header (json or protobuf)

The `Content-Type` header is required and must be either `application/json` or
`application/protobuf`. JSON is easier for debugging (particularly when making
requests with cURL), but Protobuf is better in almost every other way. Please
use Protobuf in real code. See
[Protobuf and JSON](https://github.com/twitchtv/twirp/wiki/Protobuf-and-JSON)
for more details.

### JSON serialization

The JSON format should match the
[official spec](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json)'s
rules for JSON serialization. In a nutshell: names are `camelCased`, _all_
fields must be set, _no_ extra fields may be set, and `null` means "I want to
leave this field blank".

### Error responses

Errors returned by Twirp servers use non-200 HTTP status codes and always have
JSON-encoded bodies (even if the request was Protobuf-encoded). The body JSON
has three fields `{type, msg, meta}`. For example:

```
POST /twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/INVALIDROUTE

404 Not Found
{
    "type": "bad_route",
    "msg": "no handler for path /twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/INVALIDROUTE",
    "meta": {"twirp_invalid_route": "POST /twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/INVALIDROUTE"}
}
```

## Making requests on the command line with cURL

It's easy to hand-write a Twirp request on the command line.

For example, a cURL request to the Haberdasher example `MakeHat` RPC would look
like this:

```sh
curl --request "POST" \
     --location "http://localhost:8080/twirp/twirp.example.haberdasher.Haberdasher/MakeHat" \
     --header "Content-Type:application/json" \
     --data '{"inches": 10}' \
     --verbose
```

We need to signal Twirp that we're sending JSON data (instead of protobuf), so
it can use the right deserializer. If we were using protobuf, the `--header`
would be `Content-Type:application/protobuf` (and `--data` a protobuf-encoded
message).

The `Size` request in JSON is `{"inches": 10}`, matching the Protobuf message
type:

```protobuf
message Size {
   int32 inches = 1;
}
```

The JSON response from Twirp would look something like this (`--verbose` stuff
omitted):

```json
{"inches":1, "color":"black", "name":"bowler"}
```

Matching the Protobuf message type:

```protobuf
message Hat {
  int32 inches = 1;
  string color = 2;
  string name = 3;
}
```
